# SWDV-691-CAPSTONE
This repo will house my Vacation &amp; Timeoff Tracker application for the SWDV 691 - SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT CAPSTONE course at Maryville University

Design Overview
The Final Project proposal I am submitting is a Vacation & Time-Off Tracker application that will be used to register a student’s StudentID, Name, and Master’s Degree Start Date and receive the vacation and sick leave allotments that they would have received if employed in a professional career.  Vacation, sick leave, personal days, days of caring, etc. are real-life events that occur in a professional career, so this application is very relevant to the experiences that students will have when they enter into a professional work environment.  
Why is this important?
It is also important to recognize that employees receive these time-off benefits as part of their compensation package, and instead of tracking time-off requests via an Excel spreadsheet, as I’ve experienced in the past, it is more secure, accessible, and widely distributable via a web application.
As mentioned above, I have worked for companies who tracked time-off requests via an Excel spreadsheet, which presented several challenges.  First, in order to access the work file system, an employee needed to be authenticated into the company’s system.  This is not desirable when an employee is sick and laying up in bed.  Second, Excel spreadsheets can become corrupted for a variety of reasons.  Excel uses underlying functions to perform CRUD operations, and these operations were not always reliable.  Data loss could result from Excel corruption.  Finally, there wasn’t a proper workflow for sending requests and receiving approvals, via e-mail for example.  A webpage allows you to burst [Outlook] email events in ICS format for the employee to quickly add to their calendar.
User Experience
The main purpose of the Vacation & Time-Off Tracker is to enable students to register their information with the application and receive their time-off benefit allotments as they would in a professional career, based upon their student tenure.  Students can then submit vacation, sick leave, personal days, day of caring, etc. days off via the Tracker in order to retain a record of their absences, and ICS calendar emails can be sent for students for updating their calendars with time-off events.  If desired, time-off submissions can be extended to include a Manager approval workflow when time-off submissions exceed the student’s allotments.  For example, a student may request up to their allotment of vacation days, but if they exceed their allotment, a Manager must approve the overage.
Once a student’s time-off request has been submitted, the Tracker application will store a record of each time-off request and will allow edits to be made as long as the day has not transpired yet.  Only future-dated requests will be editable.  The Tracker application will also present the student with their available time-off balances in chart or graph format to better visualize the student’s data. 

